{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f3\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 What are Neo Banks?\par
\par
-Neo-banks are online-only financial technology (fintech) companies that operate solely digitally or via mobile apps.Simply put, neo-banks are digital banks without any physical branches.\par
\par
-In India, Neobanks don\rquote t have a bank licence of their own but rely on bank partners to offer licensed services.\par
\par
-Unlike Traditional Banks, Neo-banks require minimum paperwork, are affordable, charge minimum to zero transaction fees and are borderless.\par
\par
-They are also referred to as challenger banks because they have disrupted the entire traditional banking model with a tech-driven alternative mode of banking.\par
\par
MOBILE HONEY PROCESSING VAN\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0  Why in News: Chairman KVIC Shri Vinai Kumar Saxena launched the country\rquote s first Mobile Honey Processing Van at Village Sirora in Ghaziabad, UP.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 The Mobile Van has been designed in-house by KVIC at its Multi-disciplinary Training Centre, Panjokehra, at a cost of Rs 15 lakh.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 This mobile honey processing unit can process up to 300 KG of honey in 8 hours.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 The van is also equipped with a testing laboratory, that would instantly examine the quality of honey.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 The Mobile Honey Processing Van comes as a major development under KVIC\rquote s Honey Mission which aims at training beekeepers, distributing Bee Boxes to farmers and helping rural, educated as well as unemployed youth to earn extra income through beekeeping activities.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 In line with Prime Minister\rquote s dream of \ldblquote Sweet Kranti\rdblquote  (Sweet Revolution) though honey production, the KVIC has come up with this unique innovation to enable beekeepers and farmers to get fair price of their honey produce.\par
\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-8954?\f0 Family Planning \par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Three new methods have been introduced in the National Family Planning program:\par
\par
1. Injectable Contraceptive DMPA (Antara) : a 3-monthly injection\par
2. Centchroman pill (Chhaya) : a non-hormonal once a week pill\par
3. Progesterone-only pills (POP):  for lactating mothers\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Improved Contraceptive Packaging: The packaging for Condoms, Oral contraceptive pills (OCP) and Emergency Contraceptive Pills (ECP) has now been redesigned and improved so as to increase the demand for these commodities.\par
New Family Planning Media \par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Campaign: A 360 degree holistic Family Planning campaign with a new logo has been launched with Shri Amitabh Bachchan as the brand ambassador.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Broad Objective : Expanding basket of choices\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Nodal Ministry and institutions : Ministry of Health and Family Welfare\par
\par
Constitutional morality\par
\par
Adherence to or being faithful to bottom line principles of constitutional values. It includes commitment to an inclusive and democratic political process in which both individual and collective interests are satisfied\par
\par
\par
#Ethics\par
#keywords\par
\par
5th Indian Ocean Conference\par
 \par
\f1\u9989?\f0  External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar addressed the fifth Indian Ocean Conference held at Abu Dhabi, UAE. \par
\f1\u9989?\f0  Theme : "Ecology, Economy, Epidemic" \par
\f1\u9989?\f0  This year the conference dealt with the challenges faced by the Indian ocean due to the effects of the pandemic, economic decline and climate change. \par
\f1\u9989?\f0 The event was organised by the India foundation and was chaired by Sri Lankan President\par
\par
#AGRICULTURE \par
\par
\f1\u9632?\f0   Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PMFME) Scheme-\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Ministry of Food Processing Industries & NAFED launched six One District One Product (ODOP) brands under Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises Scheme.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Ministry & NAFED will develop 10 ODOP brands  under branding and marketing component of scheme.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Out of these, six brands namely Amrit Phal, Cori Gold, Kashmiri Mantra, Madhu Mantra, Somdana, and Whole Wheat Cookies of Dilli Bakes were launched on 5th Jan 2022\par
\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PMFME) Scheme:\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 A centrally sponsored scheme launched under Atma Nirbhar Abhiyan.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Aims to enhance the competitiveness of existing individual micro-enterprises in the unorganised segment of the food processing industry and to promote formalisation of the sector and provide support to Farmer Producer Organisations, Self Help Groups, and Producers Cooperatives along their entire value chain.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 It adopts the One District One Product (ODOP) approach to reap the benefit of scale in terms of procurement of inputs, availing common services and marketing of products.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Implementation -  from 2020-21 to 2024-25.\par
\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Features:\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Academic and research institutions under MoFPI along with State Level Technical Institutions would be provided support for training of units, product development, appropriate packaging and machinery for micro units.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Existing individual micro food processing units desirous of upgrading their units can avail credit-linked capital subsidy at 35% of the eligible project cost with a maximum ceiling of Rs.10 lakh per unit.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Credit linked grants at 35% for development of common infrastructure including common processing facility, lab, warehouse, etc. through FPOs/SHGs/cooperatives or state owned agencies or private enterprise will be given.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 A seed capital (initial funding) of Rs. 40,000- per Self Help Group (SHG) member would be provided for working capital and purchase of small tools.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Marketing and branding support would be provided to groups of FPOs/SHGs/ Cooperatives or an SPV of micro food processing enterprises under the scheme, which are:\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Training relating to marketing.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Developing a common brand and packaging including standardisation.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Marketing tie-up with national and regional retail chains.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Quality control to ensure product quality meets the required standards.\par
\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  Need:\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Unorganised food processing sector of ~ 25 lakh units contributes to 74% of employment in the food processing sector.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Nearly 66% units are located in rural areas and about 80% are family-based enterprises supporting livelihood of rural households and minimising their migration to urban areas.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 These units largely fall within the category of micro enterprises.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Unorganised food processing sector faces a number of challenges like lack of access to modern technology & equipment, training, access institutional credit, lack of basic awareness on quality control of products, and lack of branding & marketing skills etc.\par
\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  One District One Product (ODOP):\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 ODOP  will provide the framework for value chain development and alignment of support infrastructure.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 There may be more than one cluster of ODOP products in one district.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 States would identify food products for districts keeping in view the existing clusters and availability of raw material.\par
\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 ODOP could be a perishable produce based or cereal based or a food item widely produced in an area.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 E.g. mango, potato, pickle, millet based products, fisheries, poultry, etc.\par
\par
\f1\u9679?\f0  National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd:\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Established on 2nd October 1958.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Registered under the Multi State Co-operative Societies Act.\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 Objectives:\par
\par
\f1\u9989?\f0 To organize, promote and develop marketing, processing and storage of agricultural, horticultural and forest produce, distribution of agricultural machinery, implements and other inputs, undertake inter-state, import and export trade, wholesale or retail.\par
\par
SOURCE - PIBUnion Minister of Science & Technology inaugurated India\rquote s first unique \ldblquote Rock\rdblquote  Museum and later addressed the Hyderabad Scientists at the CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI).\par
\par
#Rock Museum\par
About museum\par
\f3\bullet  The Open Rock Museum, set up with the aim to educate and enlighten the masses about several lesser known facts, displays around 35 different types of rocks from different parts of India with ages ranging from 3.3 Billion years to around 55 Million years of the Earth\rquote s history.\par
\bullet  These rocks also represent the deepest part of the earth up to 175 kms of distance from the surface of the earth.\par
\bullet  \ldblquote Big Earth data\rdblquote  occupies the strategic high ground in the era of knowledge economies and India is fully exploiting this new frontier contributing to the advancement of Earth science.\par
\f0\par
#sahitya Akademi\par
Noted Telugu poet Goreti Venkanna, Tamil writer Ambai, Kannada writer DS Nagabhushana, Konkani poet Sanjiv Verenkar, and Malayalam writer George Onakkoor were among the 20 names announced for the Sahitya Akademi Award 2021 on December 30.\par
\par
Here's the detailed information about it.\par
}
 